Docs update (#73)
solidity-labs-io/forge-proposal-simulator: docs/guides/customizing-proposal.md

Read more about Arbitrum Governance [here](https://docs.arbitrum.foundation/gentle-intro-dao-governance).

It is worth noting that the Arbitrum governance process has its own specifications and is not a straightforward implementation of the OZ Governor contract. Therefore, it is not possible to directly use the Governor OZ proposal type to simulate an Arbitrum proposal. Customization is needed to accommodate FPS for creating and testing Arbitrum proposals. Thanks to FPS flexibility, this is possible without much extra effort.

## Extending FPS for accommodate Arbitrum Governance

The [Arbitrum Proposal Type](https://github.com/solidity-labs-io/fps-example-repo/blob/main/src/proposals/arbitrum/ArbitrumProposal.sol) demonstrates the framework's flexibility. Let's go through each of its functions:

> -   `setEthForkId()`: used to create the Ethereum fork using Foundry as the Arbitrum Governance is a cross-chain governance. This function will be set by the child proposal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `setEthForkId(uint256)`: used to create the Ethereum fork using Foundry as Arbitrum Governance is cross-chain. This function will be set by the child proposal.
```

    ```solidity
    /// @notice set eth fork id
    function setEthForkId(uint256 _forkId) public {
        ethForkId = _forkId;
    }
    ```

> -   `afterDeployMock()`: deploys the `MockOutBox` contract and points on the `Arbitrum Bridge` with the help of the `vm.store` foundry cheatcode. Additionally, it embeds the `MockArbSys` bytecode at the `Arbitrum sys` contract address. As previously mentioned in the overview section, the calldata for the L2 proposal needs to be a call to the `sendTxToL1` on the ArbSys precompiled contract. This call requires the L1 timelock contract address as the first parameter and the L1 timelock schedule calldata as the second parameter. The `MockArbOutbox` is employed to replicate off-chain actions. The bridge ensures that the schedule was initiated by the L2 timelock by calling `l1ToL2Sender` in the outbox contract . This ensures that the bridge verification is successful, even though no genuine off-chain actions have been executed. These two mock functionalities are crucial for the arbitrum proposal flow, and here, it can be observed how FPS simplifies the simulation of such a complex proposal flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `afterDeployMock()`: deploys the `MockOutBox` contract and points on the `Arbitrum Bridge` with the help of the `vm.store` foundry cheatcode. Additionally, it embeds the `MockArbSys` bytecode at the `Arbitrum sys` contract address. As previously mentioned in the overview section, the calldata for the L2 proposal needs to be a call to the `sendTxToL1` on the ArbSys precompiled contract. This call requires the L1 timelock contract address as the first parameter and the L1 timelock schedule calldata as the second parameter. The `MockArbOutbox` is employed to replicate off-chain actions. The bridge ensures that the schedule was initiated by the L2 timelock by calling `l1ToL2Sender` in the outbox contract. This ensures that the bridge verification is successful, even though no genuine off-chain actions have been executed. These two mock functionalities are crucial for the arbitrum proposal flow, and here, it can be observed how FPS simplifies the simulation of such a complex proposal flow.
```

    ```solidity
    /// @notice Arbitrum proposals should have a single action
    function _validateActions() internal view override {
        uint256 actionsLength = actions.length;

        require(
            actionsLength == 1,
            "Arbitrum proposals must have a single action"
        );

        require(actions[0].target != address(0), "Invalid target for proposal");
        /// if there are no args and no eth, the action is not valid
        require(
            (actions[0].arguments.length == 0 && actions[0].value > 0) ||
                actions[0].arguments.length > 0,
            "Invalid arguments for proposal"
        );

        // Value is ignored on L2 proposals
        if (executionChain == ProposalExecutionChain.ARB_ONE) {
            require(actions[0].value == 0, "Value must be 0 for L2 execution");
        }
    }
    ```

> -   `getScheduleTimelockCaldata()`: This function returns calldata to schedule proposal actions on L1 timelock. The calldata is generated based on the execution chain where the proposal will be executed. If the execution chain is L1 chain then the build target is the target contract but if the execution chain is L2 chain then target is `RETRYABLE_TICKET_MAGIC` contract and the build target is encoded in the calldata along with inbox contract address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `getScheduleTimelockCaldata()`: This function returns calldata to schedule proposal actions on the L1 timelock. Calldata is generated based on the execution chain where the proposal will be executed. If the execution chain is the L1, then the build target is the target contract but if the execution chain is L2 chain then target is `RETRYABLE_TICKET_MAGIC` contract and the build target is encoded in the calldata along with the inbox contract address.
```

            // proposal must be relayed back to l2
            executionChain == ProposalExecutionChain.ETH
                ? actions[0].target
                : RETRYABLE_TICKET_MAGIC, // target
            actions[0].value, // value
            executionChain == ProposalExecutionChain.ETH
                ? actions[0].arguments
                : abi.encode( // these are the retryable data params
                        // the inbox contract used, should be arb one or nova
                        inbox,
                        addresses.getAddress("ARBITRUM_L2_UPGRADE_EXECUTOR"), // the upgrade executor on the l2 network
                        0, // no value in this upgrade
                        0, // max gas - will be filled in when the retryable is actually executed
                        0, // max fee per gas - will be filled in when the retryable is actually executed
                        actions[0].arguments // calldata created on the build function
                    ),
            bytes32(0), // no predecessor
            keccak256(abi.encodePacked(description())), // salt is prop description
            minDelay // delay for this proposal
        );
    }
    ```

> -   `getProposalActions()`: This function returns proposal actions to propose on arbitrum governor. Arbitrum proposals must have a single action which must be a call to ArbSys address with the l1 timelock schedule calldata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `getProposalActions()`: This function returns proposal actions to propose on arbitrum governor. Arbitrum proposals must have a single action which must be a call to ArbSys address with the L1 timelock schedule calldata.
```

    ```solidity
    /// @notice get proposal actions
    /// @dev Arbitrum proposals must have a single action which must be a call
    /// to ArbSys address with the l1 timelock schedule calldata
    function getProposalActions()
        public
        view
        override
        returns (
            address[] memory targets,
            uint256[] memory values,
            bytes[] memory arguments
        )
    {
        _validateActions();

        // inner calldata must be a call to schedule on L1Timelock
        bytes memory innerCalldata = getScheduleTimelockCaldata();

        targets = new address[](1);
        values = new uint256[](1);
        arguments = new bytes[](1);

        bytes memory callData = abi.encodeWithSelector(
            MockArbSys.sendTxToL1.selector,
            addresses.getAddress("ARBITRUM_L1_TIMELOCK", 1),
            innerCalldata
        );

        // Arbitrum proposals target must be the ArbSys precompiled address
        targets[0] = addresses.getAddress("ARBITRUM_SYS");
        values[0] = 0;
        arguments[0] = callData;
    }
    ```

> -   `simulate()`: Executes the proposal actions outlined in the `build()` step. Initial steps to simulate a proposal are the same as `simulate()` method in [GovernorOZProposal](./governor-oz-proposal.md) as arbitrum also uses governor OZ with timelock for L2 governance. So `super.simulate()` is called at the start of the customized simulate method. Next, further steps for the proposal simulation are added, these steps can be understood by going through the overview section of this guide and the code snippet below with inline comments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   `simulate()`: Executes the proposal actions outlined in the `build()` step. Initial steps to simulate a proposal are the same as `simulate()` method in [GovernorOZProposal](./governor-oz-proposal.md) as Arbitrum also uses governor OZ with timelock for L2 governance. `super.simulate()` is called at the start of the method. Next, further steps for the proposal simulation are added. These steps can be understood by going through the overview section of this guide and the code snippet below with inline comments.
```

                data,
                predecessor,
                keccak256(abi.encodePacked(description()))
            );

            // Stop recording logs
            Vm.Log[] memory entries = vm.getRecordedLogs();

            // If is a retriable ticket, we need to execute on L2
            if (target == RETRYABLE_TICKET_MAGIC) {
                // entries index 2 is TxToL2
                // topic with index 2 is the l2 target address
                address to = address(uint160(uint256(entries[2].topics[2])));

                bytes memory l2Calldata = abi.decode(entries[2].data, (bytes));

                // Switch back to primary fork, must be either Arb One or Arb Nova
                vm.selectFork(primaryForkId);

                // Perform the low-level call
                vm.prank(addresses.getAddress("ARBITRUM_ALIASED_L1_TIMELOCK"));
                bytes memory returndata = to.functionCall(l2Calldata);

                if (DEBUG && returndata.length > 0) {
                    console.log("Target %s called on L2 and returned:", to);
                    console.logBytes(returndata);
                }
            }
        }
    }
    ```

## Proposal contract

> Two proposals were added to the fps-example-repo. First, [ArbitrumPorposal_01](https://github.com/solidity-labs-io/fps-example-repo/blob/main/src/proposals/arbitrum/ArbitrumProposal_01.sol) which is an Arbitrum proposal that executes on L2. Second, [ArbitrumPorposal_02](https://github.com/solidity-labs-io/fps-example-repo/blob/main/src/proposals/arbitrum/ArbitrumProposal_02.sol) which is an arbitrum proposal that executes on L1. Let's first have a look at `ArbitrumPorposal_02` by going through the code snippets:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two proposals were added to the fps-example-repo. First, [ArbitrumPorposal_01](https://github.com/solidity-labs-io/fps-example-repo/blob/main/src/proposals/arbitrum/ArbitrumProposal_01.sol) which is an Arbitrum proposal that executes on L2. Second, [ArbitrumPorposal_02](https://github.com/solidity-labs-io/fps-example-repo/blob/main/src/proposals/arbitrum/ArbitrumProposal_02.sol) which is an arbitrum proposal that executes on L1. Let's first have a look at `ArbitrumPorposal_01` by going through the code snippets:
```

Author: `ArbitrumPorposal_01` executes on L2 and `ArbitrumPorposal_02` executes on L1. Here `ArbitrumPorposal_02` is explained first. @anajuliabit

> Now the customized `ArbitrumProposal` proposal type can be used to write proposal specific contracts. There are two proposals added in the fps-example-repo. First, [ArbitrumPorposal_01](https://github.com/solidity-labs-io/fps-example-repo/blob/main/src/proposals/arbitrum/ArbitrumProposal_01.sol) which is an arbitrum proposal that executes on L2. Second, [ArbitrumPorposal_02](https://github.com/solidity-labs-io/fps-example-repo/blob/main/src/proposals/arbitrum/ArbitrumProposal_02.sol) which is an arbitrum proposal that executes on L1. Let's first have a look at `ArbitrumPorposal_02` by going through the code snippets:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two proposals were added to the fps-example-repo. First, [ArbitrumPorposal_01](https://github.com/solidity-labs-io/fps-example-repo/blob/main/src/proposals/arbitrum/ArbitrumProposal_01.sol) which is an Arbitrum proposal that executes on L2. Second, [ArbitrumPorposal_02](https://github.com/solidity-labs-io/fps-example-repo/blob/main/src/proposals/arbitrum/ArbitrumProposal_02.sol) which is an arbitrum proposal that executes on L1. Let's first have a look at `ArbitrumPorposal_02` by going through the code snippets:
```

        return "ARBITRUM_PROPOSAL_02";
    }
    ```

-   `description()`: Provides a detailed description of the proposal.

    ```solidity
    function description() public pure override returns (string memory) {
        return "This proposal upgrades the L1 weth gateway";
    }
    ```

-   `deploy()`: This function deploys any necessary contracts. In this example the new weth gateway implementation contract and the GAC contract are deployed on L1. Once deployed, these contracts are added to the `Addresses` contract by calling `addAddress()`.

    ```solidity
    function deploy() public override {
        if (
            !addresses.isAddressSet("ARBITRUM_L1_WETH_GATEWAY_IMPLEMENTATION")
        ) {
            address mockUpgrade = address(new MockUpgrade());

            addresses.addAddress(
                "ARBITRUM_L1_WETH_GATEWAY_IMPLEMENTATION",
                mockUpgrade,
                true
            );
        }

        if (!addresses.isAddressSet("PROXY_UPGRADE_ACTION")) {
            address gac = address(new MockProxyUpgradeAction());

            addresses.addAddress("PROXY_UPGRADE_ACTION", gac, true);
        }
    }
    ```

> -   `build()`: Add actions to the proposal contract. [See build function](../overview/architecture/proposal-functions.md#build-function). This example upgrades the weth gateway on L1. Since all the upgrades on L1 can only be done thourgh the upgrade executor on L1, it is used to upgrade the implementation of Weth gateway. The actions should be written in solidity code in the order they should be executed. Any mutative calls (except to the Addresses object) will be recorded and stored as actions to execute in the run function. The `caller` address that will call actions is passed into `buildModifier`; it is the arbitrum L1 timelock for this example. `buildModifier` is a necessary modifier for the `build` function and will not work without it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   `build()`: Add the needed actions to update the Arbitrum WETH Gateway on L1. For more in-depth information on how this process operates behind the scenes, please refer to the [build function](../overview/architecture/proposal-functions.md#build-function).
```

    ```solidity
    function build()
        public
        override
        buildModifier(addresses.getAddress("ARBITRUM_L1_TIMELOCK", 1))
    {
        // select etherem mainnet fork as this proposal upgrades weth gateway on L1
        vm.selectFork(ethForkId);

        IUpgradeExecutor upgradeExecutor = IUpgradeExecutor(
            addresses.getAddress("ARBITRUM_L1_UPGRADE_EXECUTOR")
        );

        upgradeExecutor.execute(
            addresses.getAddress("PROXY_UPGRADE_ACTION"),
            abi.encodeWithSelector(
                MockProxyUpgradeAction.perform.selector,
                addresses.getAddress("ARBITRUM_L1_PROXY_ADMIN"),
                addresses.getAddress("ARBITRUM_L1_WETH_GATEWAY_PROXY"),
                addresses.getAddress("ARBITRUM_L1_WETH_GATEWAY_IMPLEMENTATION")
            )
        );

        vm.selectFork(primaryForkId);
    }
    ```

> -   `run()`: Sets up the environment for running the proposal. [See run function](../overview/architecture/proposal-functions.md#run-function). This sets `addresses`, `primaryForkId`, `ethForkId` and `governor`, and then calls `super.run()` to run the entire proposal. In this example, `primaryForkId` is set to `arbitrum` for executing the proposal on L2. Then, `EthForkId` is set as every arbitrum proposal goes to L1 timelock irrespective of execution chain before it execution. Next, the `addresses` object is set by reading from the `addresses.json` file. The state of the `addresses` contract is persistent across forks by using foundry's `vm.makePersistent()` cheatcode. The Arbitrum L2 governor's contract address to simulate the proposal is set using `setGovernor`. This will be used to check onchain calldata and simulate the proposal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   `run()`: Serves as the entrypoint for executing the proposal by `forge script`.  For more in-depth information on how this process operates behind the scenes, please refer to [run function](../overview/architecture/proposal-functions.md#run-function). In this example, 'primaryForkId' is configured as 'Arbitrum' to execute the proposal on L2. Subsequently, 'ethForkId' is also set as every Arbitrum proposal must undergo a settlement process on L1, regardless of the final execution chain target. The address of the Arbitrum L2 governor's contract is established using 'setGovernor' to simulate the proposal. This address will be used later to verify on-chain calldata and simulate the proposal.
```

    ```solidity
    function run() public override {
        addresses = new Addresses(
            vm.envOr("ADDRESSES_PATH", string("./addresses/Addresses.json"))
        );
        vm.makePersistent(address(addresses));

        setPrimaryForkId(vm.createFork("arbitrum"));

        setEthForkId(vm.createFork("ethereum"));

        /// select arbitrum fork to set governor address
        vm.selectFork(primaryForkId);

        setGovernor(addresses.getAddress("ARBITRUM_L2_CORE_GOVERNOR"));

        /// select ethereum mainnet fork as contracts are deployed on ethereum mainnet
        vm.selectFork(ethForkId);

        super.run();
    }
    ```

> -   `validate()`: This final step validates the system in its post-execution state. It ensures that gateway proxy is upgraded to new implementation on L1. Only proxy owner can call `implementation()` method to check implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `validate()`: This final step validates the system in its post-execution state. It ensures that gateway proxy is upgraded to new implementation on L1. Only the proxy owner can call `implementation()` method to check its implementation address.
```

        return "ARBITRUM_PROPOSAL_01";
    }
    ```

-   `description()`: Provides a detailed description of the proposal.

    ```solidity
    function description() public pure override returns (string memory) {
        return "This proposal upgrades the L2 weth gateway";
    }
    ```

-   `deploy()`: This function deploys any necessary contracts. In this example the new weth gateway implementation contract and the GAC contract are deployed on L2. Once deployed, these contracts are added to the `Addresses` contract by calling `addAddress()`.

    ```solidity
    function deploy() public override {
        if (
            !addresses.isAddressSet("ARBITRUM_L2_WETH_GATEWAY_IMPLEMENTATION")
        ) {
            address mockUpgrade = address(new MockUpgrade());

            addresses.addAddress(
                "ARBITRUM_L2_WETH_GATEWAY_IMPLEMENTATION",
                mockUpgrade,
                true
            );
        }

        if (!addresses.isAddressSet("PROXY_UPGRADE_ACTION")) {
            address gac = address(new MockProxyUpgradeAction());
            addresses.addAddress("PROXY_UPGRADE_ACTION", gac, true);
        }
    }
    ```

> -   `build()`: Add actions to the proposal contract. [See build function](../overview/architecture/proposal-functions.md#build-function). This example upgrades weth gateway on L2. Since all the upgrades on L2 can only be done thourgh upgrade executor on L2, it is used to upgrade implementation of Weth gateway on L2. The actions should be written in solidity code in the order they should be executed. Any mutative calls (except to the Addresses object) will be recorded and stored as actions to execute in the run function. The `caller` address that will call actions is passed into `buildModifier`; it is the arbitrum L1 timelock for this example. `buildModifier` is a necessary modifier for the `build` function and will not work without it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   `build()`: Add the needed actions to update the Arbitrum WETH Gateway on L2. For more in-depth information on how this process operates behind the scenes, please refer to the [build function](../overview/architecture/proposal-functions.md#build-function).
```

    ```solidity
    function build()
        public
        override
        buildModifier(addresses.getAddress("ARBITRUM_ALIASED_L1_TIMELOCK"))
    {
        IUpgradeExecutor upgradeExecutor = IUpgradeExecutor(
            addresses.getAddress("ARBITRUM_L2_UPGRADE_EXECUTOR")
        );

        upgradeExecutor.execute(
            addresses.getAddress("PROXY_UPGRADE_ACTION"),
            abi.encodeWithSelector(
                MockProxyUpgradeAction.perform.selector,
                addresses.getAddress("ARBITRUM_L2_PROXY_ADMIN"),
                addresses.getAddress("ARBITRUM_L2_WETH_GATEWAY_PROXY"),
                addresses.getAddress("ARBITRUM_L2_WETH_GATEWAY_IMPLEMENTATION")
            )
        );
    }
    ```

> -   `run()`: Serves as the entrypoint for executing the proposal by `forge script`.  For more in-depth information on how this process operates behind the scenes, please refer to [run function](../overview/architecture/proposal-functions.md#run-function). In this example, 'primaryForkId' is configured as 'Arbitrum' to execute the proposal on L2. Subsequently, 'ethForkId' is also set as every Arbitrum proposal must undergo a settlement process on L1, regardless of the final execution chain target. The address of the Arbitrum L2 governor's contract is established using 'setGovernor' to simulate the proposal. This address will be used later to verify on-chain calldata and simulate the proposal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `run()`: Serves as the entrypoint for executing the proposal by `forge script`.  For more in-depth information on how this process operates behind the scenes, please refer to the [run function](../overview/architecture/proposal-functions.md#run-function). In this example, 'primaryForkId' is configured as 'Arbitrum' to execute the proposal on L2. Subsequently, 'ethForkId' is also set as every Arbitrum proposal must undergo a settlement process on L1, regardless of the final execution chain target. The address of the Arbitrum L2 governor's contract is established using 'setGovernor' to simulate the proposal. This address will be used later to verify on-chain calldata and simulate the proposal.
```

> -   `run()`: Sets up the environment for running the proposal. [See run function](../overview/architecture/proposal-functions.md#run-function). This sets `addresses`, `primaryForkId`, `ethForkId` and `governor`, and then calls `super.run()` to run the entire proposal. In this example, `primaryForkId` is set to `arbitrum` for executing the proposal on L2. Then,`EthForkId` is set as every arbitrum proposal goes to L1 timelock irrespective of execution chain before it execution. Next, the `addresses` object is set by reading from the `addresses.json` file. The state of the `addresses` contract is persistent across forks by using foundry's `vm.makePersistent()` cheatcode. Arbitrum L2 governor's contract address is set using `setGovernor`, which is utilized for simulating the proposal and checking on-chain proposal state.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   `run()`: Serves as the entrypoint for executing the proposal by `forge script`.  For more in-depth information on how this process operates behind the scenes, please refer to [run function](../overview/architecture/proposal-functions.md#run-function). In this example, 'primaryForkId' is configured as 'Arbitrum' to execute the proposal on L2. Subsequently, 'ethForkId' is also set as every Arbitrum proposal must undergo a settlement process on L1, regardless of the final execution chain target. The address of the Arbitrum L2 governor's contract is established using 'setGovernor' to simulate the proposal. This address will be used later to verify on-chain calldata and simulate the proposal.
```

```

> A DAO member can check whether the calldata proposed on the governance matches the calldata from the script exeuction. It is crucial to note that two new addresses have been added to the `Addresses.sol` storage. These addresses are not included in the JSON file and must be added manually as new contracts have now been added to the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A DAO member can check whether the calldata proposed on the governance matches the calldata from the script exeuction. It is crucial to note that two new addresses have been added to the `Addresses.sol` storage during proposal execution. However, these addresses are not included in the JSON file and must be added manually as new contracts have now been added to the system.
```

# Customizing Proposals

## Overview

The framework is designed to be flexible and loosely coupled, as explained [here](../overview/architecture/proposal-functions.md#flexibility). However, in some cases, additional customization may be required. Currently, FPS supports four types of proposals, each of which can be further customized to meet specific requirements. This guide will explore an example where we customize the Governor OZ proposal type to implement Arbitrum cross-chain proposals. Arbitrum's governance process involves the use of an OZ governor with a timelock extension on Arbitrum L2 and a simple timelock on L1. The proposal's path is determined by whether it is targeting L1 or L2. Regardless of whether its final destination is an L2 contract, every Arbitrum proposal must go through a settlement process on Layer 1.

> The following steps from A to E are equal no matter which chain the proposal final contract target is deployed:

Reviewer 2: ![Screenshot 2024-06-02 at 19 55 14](https://github.com/solidity-labs-io/forge-proposal-simulator/assets/50335980/e938facb-878e-4778-8642-b015bad68cd8)

steps not properly formatted

Author: done

Read more about Arbitrum Governance [here](https://docs.arbitrum.foundation/gentle-intro-dao-governance).

It is worth noting that the Arbitrum governance process has its own specifications and is not a straightforward implementation of the OZ Governor contract. Therefore, it is not possible to directly use the Governor OZ proposal type to simulate an Arbitrum proposal. Customization is needed to accommodate FPS for creating and testing Arbitrum proposals. Thanks to FPS flexibility, this is possible without much extra effort.

## Extending FPS for accommodate Arbitrum Governance

In order to demonstrate the framework's flexibility, we developed the [Arbitrum Proposal Type](https://github.com/solidity-labs-io/fps-example-repo/blob/main/src/proposals/arbitrum/ArbitrumProposal.sol). Let's go through each of its functions:

-   `setEthForkId()`: used to create the Ethereum fork using Foundry as the Arbitrum Governance is a cross-chain governance. This function will be set by the child proposal.

    ```solidity
    /// @notice set eth fork id
    function setEthForkId(uint256 _forkId) public {
        ethForkId = _forkId;
    }
    ```

> -   `afterDeployMock()`: Here it is used to deploy and add `MockOutBox` contract address on `Arbitrum Bridge` contract using `vm.store` foundry cheatcode and it also etches `MockArbSys` bytecode at `Arbitrum sys` contract address. As already explained in overview section the calldata for the L2 proposal must be a call to `sendTxToL1` on the ArbSys precompiled contract which takes L1 timelock contract address as the first parameter and L1 timelock schedule calldata as the second. The `MockArbOutbox` is used to simulate offchain actions, bridge verifies that schedule was called by the L2 timelock by querying the outbox contract, by storing `MockArbOutbox` address inside bridge we make sure that the bridge verification passes although no offchain actions were made. These two mocks are critical for the arbitrum proposal flow and here we can see how FPS makes it easy to simulate such complex proposal flow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   `afterDeployMock()`:  deploys the `MockOutBox` contract and points on the `Arbitrum Bridge` with the help of the `vm.store` foundry cheatcode. Additionally, we embed the `MockArbSys` bytecode at the `Arbitrum sys` contract address. As previously mentioned in the overview section, the calldata for the L2 proposal needs to be a call to the `sendTxToL1` on the ArbSys precompiled contract. This call requires the L1 timelock contract address as the first parameter and the L1 timelock schedule calldata as the second parameter. The `MockArbOutbox` is employed to replicate off-chain actions. The bridge ensures that the schedule was initiated by the L2 timelock by calling `l1ToL2Sender` in the outbox contract . We ensure that the bridge verification is successful, even though no genuine off-chain actions have been executed. These two mock functionalities are crucial for the arbitral proposal flow, and here, we can observe how FPS simplifies the simulation of such a complex proposal flow.
```

Author: done

            bytes memory _data
        ) external payable returns (uint256) {
            (bool success, ) = _l1Target.call(_data);
            require(success, "Arbsys: sendTxToL1 failed");
            return ++ticketId;
        }
    }

    // @title MockArbOutbox
    // @notice Mock arbitrum outbox to return L2 timelock on l2ToL1Sender call
    contract MockArbOutbox {
        function l2ToL1Sender() external pure returns (address) {
            return 0x34d45e99f7D8c45ed05B5cA72D54bbD1fb3F98f0;
        }
    }

    /// @notice mock arb sys precompiled contract on L2
    ///         mock outbox on mainnet
    function afterDeployMock() public override {
        // switch to mainnet fork to mock arb outbox
        vm.selectFork(ethForkId);
        address mockOutbox = address(new MockArbOutbox());

        vm.store(
            addresses.getAddress("ARBITRUM_BRIDGE"),
            bytes32(uint256(5)),
            bytes32(uint256(uint160(mockOutbox)))
        );

        vm.selectFork(primaryForkId);

        address arbsys = address(new MockArbSys());
        vm.makePersistent(arbsys);

        vm.etch(addresses.getAddress("ARBITRUM_SYS"), address(arbsys).code);
    }
    ```

> -   `_validateActions()`: Validates proposal actions. An arbitrum proposal should have a single action this method checks that there is only one action in the proposal, target contract is not `ZERO ADDRESS`, no actions are allowed without both arguments and value and if execution chain is `L2` no `ETH` is transferred (value = 0).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   `_validateActions()`: Validates proposal actions. An arbitrum proposal should have a single action. This method checks that there is only one action in the proposal and the target contract is not the zero address. Furthermore, it also checks that there are no actions without arguments and value, and if the execution chain is `L2`, no `ETH` is transferred (value = 0).
```

    ```solidity
    /// @notice get proposal actions
    /// @dev Arbitrum proposals must have a single action which must be a call
    /// to ArbSys address with the l1 timelock schedule calldata
    function getProposalActions()
        public
        view
        override
        returns (
            address[] memory targets,
            uint256[] memory values,
            bytes[] memory arguments
        )
    {
        _validateActions();

        // inner calldata must be a call to schedule on L1Timelock
        bytes memory innerCalldata = getScheduleTimelockCaldata();

        targets = new address[](1);
        values = new uint256[](1);
        arguments = new bytes[](1);

        bytes memory callData = abi.encodeWithSelector(
            MockArbSys.sendTxToL1.selector,
            addresses.getAddress("ARBITRUM_L1_TIMELOCK", 1),
            innerCalldata
        );

        // Arbitrum proposals target must be the ArbSys precompiled address
        targets[0] = addresses.getAddress("ARBITRUM_SYS");
        values[0] = 0;
        arguments[0] = callData;
    }
    ```

> -   `simulate()`: This function simulates proposal actions on chain. Before understanding simulate of the customised `ArbitrumProposal` contract let's first get an overview of the `GovernorOZProposal` simulate function. In GovernorOZProposal, first required number of governance tokens are minted to the proposer address. Proposer delegates votes to himself and then proposes the proposal. Then we skip the time by the voting delay and queue the proposal. After queuing the proposal, we skip the time by timelock delay and then finally execute the proposal. Check the code snippet below with inline comments to get a better idea.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   `simulate()`: This function simulates proposal actions on chain. 
```

There is no need to explain OZ flow here, this is not the point of this tutorial.

Author: I have added the explanation for OZ simulate here as that is not explained elsewhere and is required for someone to understand the arbitrum `simulate` as this simulate calls `super.simulate()`. @anajuliabit

Reviewer 2: @prateek105 OZ Governor should have it own section as we have for Governor bravo

Author: We don't have `simulate` for Governor bravo as of now as it is no longer needed in the proposal specific contract. @anajuliabit

Reviewer 2: @prateek105 wdym? We hjave simulate for Governor Bravo

Author: yes right. `simulate` is there for Governor Bravo. What I mean is that it isn't explained in the bravo guide as this function is not part of the proposal specific bravo contract. @anajuliabit

Author: fixed this by adding `simulate` in Governor Bravo and providing its reference here.

        // Vote YES
        vm.prank(proposerAddress);
        governor.castVote(proposalId, 1);

        // Roll to allow proposal state transitions
        vm.roll(block.number + governor.votingPeriod());

        require(
            governor.state(proposalId) == IGovernor.ProposalState.Succeeded
        );

        vm.warp(block.timestamp + governor.proposalEta(proposalId) + 1);

        // Queue the proposal
        governor.queue(
            targets,
            values,
            calldatas,
            keccak256(abi.encodePacked(description()))
        );

        require(governor.state(proposalId) == IGovernor.ProposalState.Queued);

        // Warp to allow proposal execution on timelock
        ITimelockController timelock = ITimelockController(
            IGovernorTimelockControl(address(governor)).timelock()
        );
        vm.warp(block.timestamp + timelock.getMinDelay());

        // Execute the proposal
        governor.execute(
            targets,
            values,
            calldatas,
            keccak256(abi.encodePacked(description()))
        );

        require(governor.state(proposalId) == IGovernor.ProposalState.Executed);
    }

>     ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>     Now let's have a look at the customised `ArbitrumProposal` contract type, this contract inherits the `GovernorOZProposal` contract. initial steps to simulate a proposal is the same as in `GovernorOZProposal` as arbitrum also uses governor OZ with timelock for L2 governance, so we call `super.simulate` at the start of the cutomized simulate method. Next we add further steps for the proposal simulation, these steps can be understood by going through the overview section of this guide and the code snippet below with inline comments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Initial steps to simulate a proposal are the same as in `GovernorOZProposal` as arbitral also uses governor OZ with timelock for L2 governance, so we call `super.simulate` at the start of the customized simulate method. Next we add further steps for the proposal simulation, these steps can be understood by going through the overview section of this guide and the code snippet below with inline comments.
```

Author: done

    }
    ```

> -   `simulate()`: Executes the proposal actions outlined in the `build()` step. Initial steps to simulate a proposal are the same as `simulate()` method in [GovernorOZProposal](./oz-governor-proposal.md) as Arbitrum also uses OZ Governor with timelock for L2 governance. `super.simulate()` is called at the start of the method. Next, further steps for the proposal simulation are added. These steps can be understood by going through the overview section of this guide and the code snippet below with inline comments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `simulate()`: Executes the proposal actions outlined in the `build()` step. Initial steps to simulate a proposal are the same as `simulate()` method in [OZ Governor Proposal](./oz-governor-proposal.md) as Arbitrum also uses OZ Governor with timelock for L2 governance. `super.simulate()` is called at the start of the method. Next, further steps for the proposal simulation are added. These steps can be understood by going through the overview section of this guide and the code snippet below with inline comments.
```
